For Editorial review (#1226)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: x12-edi/2.5/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

> 

Reviewer: INSTRUCTIONS from writer

Hi Kim, here is a PR for your review: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-connectors/pull/1226/files Type: CE. Scope: All.  Due: two days from whenever you can start these. (Note- the rest of the files for this connector are still under tech review.)

Background info

Hi @Kim Bostrom, I have some files coming to you for editorial work. I have a couple of items to note about them, so I thought I would send them here instead of filling up the edit request channel. Here's the story

 I have been putting a couple of older B2B connector docs into the templates. The text in these have not seen any doc 'love' for probably a few years. The first one is X12, and the second one will be EDIFACT (after the technical review). So for X12, I discovered some items that I wanted to call out for your edits. 
 
 Here's the story:   
 
 1. The X12 identifiers are in ALL CAPS. There aren't many of them, but that's how the PM says folks understand 'em (in ALL CAPS). 
 
I used init caps for Receive and Send message to distinguish them. They are a kind of a message, so the init caps seems to work. And, the PM is okay with it. 

Last of all, we've gone around and around with the full connector name. The PM's final decision is Anypoint Connector for  X12 EDI. He really wants to keep the EDI part but had wanted it before the X12. I thought it could be harder for users to find it that way in our docs, since it's always had the X12 first. He is in agreement with this. 

That's all I got, preparing your files now.

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Premium] +

> Anypoint Connector for X12 EDI (X12 EDI Connector) allows you to convert X12 messages to and from DataWeave-compatible representations using lists and maps.

Reviewer: This was correct the first time: GLOBALLY change "allows" to "enables" when referring to "you," per Style Reference
```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for X12 EDI (X12 EDI Connector) enables you to convert X12 messages to and from DataWeave-compatible representations using lists and maps.
```

Reviewer: Does "using lists and maps" refer to how EDI enables you to convert or to the representations?
If the former, insert "by": "by using lists and maps."
If the latter, insert "that": "that use lists and maps."

Author: It's 'by', fixed.

> The schema definitions for all xref:x12-edi-versions-x12.adoc[supported X12 standard transaction sets] are provided. For complete information on schemas, see xref:x12-edi-connector::x12-edi-schema-language-reference.adoc[X12 EDI Schema Language Reference].

Reviewer: Passive voice: who or what is providing the definitions? 
Reword to active.

Reviewer: GLOBAL: "information on" > "information about," per Style Referenece.

Author: Fixed both of these.

> Many HIPAA document versions are also supported, as listed separately in the xref:x12-edi-versions-hipaa.adoc[Supported HIPAA Versions]. For more information on HIPAA usage, refer to xref:x12-edi-connector-hipaa.adoc[Connector HIPAA Standards]

Reviewer: Are we referring to Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act?

Reviewer: ditto re. "information on" > "information about"

Reviewer: End with period.

Author: All fixed.

> 

Reviewer: Lines 10-24 still hidden, as noted in convo about edit request, so I will assume you do not want them edited.

However, note that there is a blank at Line 23 that should not be there.

Author: Got it, thanks.

[NOTE]

> X12 EDI Connector supports files of up to 15 MB in size, and the memory requirement is approximately 40 to 1.

Reviewer: "15 MB in size" is redundant. 
Also, "40 to 1" would not require a subsequent example if it were identified more clearly:
```suggestion
X12 EDI Connector supports files of up to 15 MB, with each megabyte of file size requiring approximately 40 MB of memory to process, depending on the complexity of the mapping instructions. Be sure to consider this memory requirement in conjunction with your transactions per second (TPS) requirements when processing large X12 files.
```

Author: I agree this is not the best piece of writing from Amit. The PM wants to revamp in in a future release, so I will make sure you see the rewrite.

> For example, a 1 MB file requires up to 40 MB of memory to process, so it's important to consider this memory requirement in conjunction with your Transactions Per Second (TPS) needs for large X12 files.

Reviewer: See above.

Author: See response above.

> This is not an exact figure; the value varies according to the complexity of the mapping instructions.

Reviewer: See above.

Reviewer: From this point onward, proceeding with CE only, since that was what you requested.
(I have been adding a bit of CU, just to show you what might be needed at some point when you have more time.)

Author: Thanks Kim.

> == About the EDI Schema Language

Reviewer: See Style Reference entry for topic titles. Try to be more specific than "about."

Author: Fixed throughout.

X12 EDI Connector uses a YAML format called EDI Schema Language (ESL) to represent EDI schemas.
Basic ESLs define the structure of EDI messages in terms of:

> * structures  - known as transaction sets in X12 terminology

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* structures, known as _transaction sets_ in X12 terminology
```

Reviewer: Lines 38-59 hidden: untouched, unedited

Author: Fixed.

|Transactions |A hierarchy of the transaction sets that are either read by the module during a read operation or sent by the module during a write operation. The value of this top-level key is a map with standard versions as keys, in the form of `v005010`.
For example, if you are using version `005010` with `850` and `855` transaction sets, the transactions contain a map with one key, `v005010`. The value of this key is another map, one with two keys, `850` and `855`. Each of these  contain a list of individual `850` and `855` transaction sets that are processed. If you're using `997` functional acknowledgments, then `997` is the key for a list of 997 transaction sets.
|===

Individual transaction sets have their own maps, with the following keys:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Key |Description
|Detail |A map of segments or loops from the detail section of the transaction set. Values are maps for segments or loops that occur once. Lists of maps exist for segments or loops that occur more than once.
|Errors (read only) |A list of errors that are associated either with the input as a whole or with interchanges that have no valid transaction sets.

> |Group |A map containing GS group header segment values. For a read message, the map is the actual data from the enclosing group. It is a single map linked from all transaction sets in the group. For a write message, the map value creates the enclosing group. If there are no values for this map, then the default is the value(s) are taken from the Group map at the message level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Group |A map containing GS group header segment values. For a read message, the map is the actual data from the enclosing group. It is a single map linked from all transaction sets in the group. For a write message, the map value creates the enclosing group. If there are no values for this map, then the default is the value(s) taken from the Group map at the message level.
```

|Heading |A map of segments or loops from the heading section of the transaction set. Values are maps for segments or loops that occur once. Lists of maps exist for values that occur more than once.
|Id |The Transaction ID must match the key of the containing transaction list.

> |Interchange |A map of ISA interchange header segment values. For a read message, the map is the actual data from the enclosing interchange. It is a single map linked from all transaction sets in the interchange. For a write message, the map value creates the enclosing interchange.  For example, gathering transactions with the same interchange values into a single interchange, regardless of whether the actual maps are the same. If there are no values for this map, then the default is the value(s) are taken from the Interchange map at the message level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Interchange |A map of ISA interchange header segment values. For a read message, the map is the actual data from the enclosing interchange. It is a single map linked from all transaction sets in the interchange. For a write message, the map value creates the enclosing interchange. For example, gathering transactions with the same interchange values into a single interchange, regardless of whether the actual maps are the same. If there are no values for this map, then the default is the value(s) taken from the Interchange map at the message level.
```

|Name |Transaction set name
|SetHeader |A map of ST transaction set header segment values. This provides the actual header data for a Read operation, and enables you to provide overrides for for Write operation configuration settings.
|Summary |A map of segments or loops from the summary section of the transaction set. These values are maps for segments or loops that occur once. The list of maps are for values that are repeated.
|===

Generated `997` or `999` functional acknowledgment transactions differ from received messages in their handling of interchange information:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Key name |Description

> |Interchange |A map of ISA interchange header segment values. For functional acknowledgments generated by receive processing, this map is a copy of the data for the containing interchange with sender and receiver identification components (ISA05/ISA06 and ISA07/ISA08) interchanged. When writing a message, these values are used for creating the enclosing interchange. For example, gathering transactions with the same interchange values into a single interchange, regardless of whether the actual maps are the same. If there are no values for this map, then the default is the value(s) are taken from the Interchange map at the message level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Interchange |A map of ISA interchange header segment values. For functional acknowledgments generated by receive processing, this map is a copy of the data for the containing interchange with sender and receiver identification components (ISA05/ISA06 and ISA07/ISA08) interchanged. When writing a message, these values are used for creating the enclosing interchange. For example, gathering transactions with the same interchange values into a single interchange, regardless of whether the actual maps are the same. If there are no values for this map, then the default is the value(s) taken from the Interchange map at the message level.
```

> If you're using one or more custom schemas, refer to xref:x12-edi-connector-config-topics.adoc[XML Schema and Trading Partner Configuration] for complete information on setting your schema locations.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY search for "information on" and change it to "information about."

Author: Fixed throughout.

== About X12 EDI Connector Message Structure

> This connector enables the reading or writing of X12 documents into (or from) the canonical EDI message structure.

Reviewer: "the reading or writing of" is passive and indirect. Reword to address "you."

Reviewer: Is this different from what we said above about translating to and from DataWeave?

Author: Fixed. It is and probably not necessary. I think the PM wants to strike all of this content in a future enhancement because its not to the level of this user. That is, our users of this content already understand this.

> This structure is a hierarchy of Java Maps and Lists. You use either DataWeave or code to manipulate them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This structure is a hierarchy of Java Map and List objects. You use either DataWeave or code to manipulate them.
```

Author: STET, this may go away completely. Again, it's over-simplifying for our users.

> Each transaction has its structure as defined in the schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each transaction structure is defined in the schemas.
```

Author: Fixed.

> The message itself contains the following keys, some of which only apply to either the read operation or the write operation, as indicated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The message itself contains the following keys, some of which apply only to either the read operation or the write operation, as indicated:
```

Author: Fixed.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===

> |Key name |Description

Reviewer: Use title-style capitalization for table column headings:
```suggestion
|Key Name |Description
```

Author: Fixed.

> |Delimiters |The delimiters used for the message. If used, this set is based on the last interchange processed by a read operation. If set for a write operation, this overrides the values in the module configuration. The characters in the string are interpreted based on position in the following order: data separator, sub-element separator, repetition separator, or `U` if none, segment terminator.

Reviewer: Reread and reword to avoid confusion between "this set" (of what?) vs. "If set for a write operation" (set=configured).

If "this set" = characters or string of characters, then use one of those terms instead.

My best guess:
```suggestion
|Delimiters |An optional set of delimiters used in the message. If used in a read operation, the delimiters are based on the most recent interchange processed by a read operation. If used for a write operation, the delimiters override the values in the module configuration. The characters in the string of delimiters are interpreted based on their position in string, in the following order: data separator, subelement separator, repetition separator, and segment terminator, with a value of `U` indicating no value in that position.
```
This is just a guess, but you can extrapolate from it a clearer way of expressing this definition I think.

Reviewer: Note also that this is a LOT of text for a definition, much more than used for its peers that follow. Perhaps some of this belongs elsewhere, in a narrative description of delimiters, if there is one?

> |Errors (read only) |A list of errors that are associated with the input as a whole, or with interchanges with no valid transaction sets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Errors (read only) |A list of errors that are associated either with the input as a whole or with interchanges that have no valid transaction sets.
```

Author: Fixed.

|FunctionalAcksGenerated (read only) |A list of `997` or `999` configured acknowledgments that are generated by the module during the read operation.
|Group (write only) |Map of GS group header segment values used as defaults when writing groups

> |Interchange (write only) |Map of ISA interchange header segment values used as defaults when writing interchanges.

Reviewer: parallelism and modification placement (the map is not doing the writing):

```suggestion
|Interchange (write only) |A map of ISA interchange header segment values used as defaults during an interchange write operation.
```

Author: Fixed.

|InterchangeAcksGenerated (read only) |A list of TA1 acknowledgments that were generated by the module during the read operation.
|InterchangeAcksReceived (read only) |A list of TA1 acknowledgments that were received by the module during the read operation.
|InterchangeAcksToSend (write only) |A list of TA1 acknowledgments that are sent by the module during the write operation.

> |Transactions |A hierarchy of the transaction sets that are read by the module during a read operation, or are sent by the module during a write operation. The value of this top-level key is a map with standard versions as keys, in the form of `v005010`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Transactions |A hierarchy of the transaction sets that are either read by the module during a read operation or sent by the module during a write operation. The value of this top-level key is a map with standard versions as keys in the form of `v005010`.
```

Author: Fixed.

> For example, if you are using version `005010` `850` and `855` transaction sets, the Transactions would contain a map with one key, `v005010`. The value of this key would be another map, one with two keys, `850` and `855`. Each of these  contain a list of individual `850` and `855` transaction sets that are processed. If you're using `997` functional acknowledgments. Then `997` is the key for a list of 997 transaction sets.

Reviewer: Again, this is a lot of text for a table column. Consider moving the example to a narrative discussion elsewhere, as appropriate.

Reviewer: Copyedit:
```suggestion
For example, if you are using version `005010` with `850` and `855` transaction sets, the transactions contain a map with one key, `v005010`. The value of this key is another map, one with two keys, `850` and `855`. Each of these contain a list of individual `850` and `855` transaction sets that are processed. If you're using `997` functional acknowledgments, then `997` is the key for a list of 997 transaction sets.
```

Reviewer: BREAK here to commit to prevent Github error and to enable writer to start work.

Reviewer: RESUME CE

|===
|Key |Description

> |Detail |Map of segments or loops from the detail section of the transaction set. Values are maps for segments or loops that occur once, lists of maps for values that are repeated.

Reviewer: Please reread this and evaluate the second sentence in light of the first. Note also that the second sentence is very unclear, defining "values" as the the same as the first sentence and then adding, after a comma, "lists of maps for values that are repeated."
Are you trying to say that that maps exist for segments or loops that occur once and that lists of maps exist for segments or loops that occur more than once?

Author: Reworded to: Values are maps for segments or loops that occur once. Lists of maps exist for segments or loops that occur more than once.

|Errors (read only) |A list of errors that are associated with the transaction set.

> |Group |Map of GS group header segment values. When reading a message, this map is the actual data from the enclosing group, that is, a single map linked from all transaction sets in the group. When writing a message, these values are used for creating the enclosing group. Values not populated in this map then default to the values from the Group map at the message level.

Reviewer: For parallelism with other Description entries, "A map of..." rather than "Map of...."

Reviewer: Ditto modifier issue noted earlier: "this map" and "these values" are not who or what is reading or writing a message. Specify who or what is reading and writing.

Reviewer: What is "GS" an abbreviation for?

Reviewer: Per the Style Reference, do not restate a comment using ", that is,..." Make the point once, using the most appropriate words. My best guess:

During a read operation, this map is a single map that includes all the data from all transaction sets in the GS group header segment.

Reviewer: Reword the next sentence similarly, for the write operation.

Reviewer: Clarify how the final sentence relates to the previous sentences: what is an unpopulated value: no value? Which map is "this map"? What are "the values from the Group map at the message level"? What Group map? Message level vs. what other level?

Author: Fixed for all. GS stands for functional group. It is part of the structure of an X12 envelope. Our users do understand what a GS functional group is because it is key to using X12.

> |Heading |Map of segments or loops from the heading section of the transaction set. Values are maps for segments or loops that occur once. Lists of maps are for values that are repeated.

Reviewer: Compare with text at Line 92 and standardize both to one wording and presentation.

Author: Fixed.

> |Id |Transaction ID, which must match the key of the containing transaction list.

Reviewer: Note that Lines 97-121 are not displayed (blue, per convo in Slack channel) in the PR, which means the text has not changed and is therefore not edited.

Author: okay

https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/[Anypoint Exchange] provides templates
that you can use as starting points for your apps and examples that illustrate a complete solution.

=== X12 EDI Connector Templates in Exchange

> 

Reviewer: Where is a text introduction to the items that follow?

Reviewer: Format these using proper bullet list format.

Author: Fixed.

https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-b2b-edi-outbound-x12-map/[Map application messages to outbound EDI X12 transactions]

> Sets up your Outbound transactions.

Reviewer: "Use this for setting up...", per the peer entries that follow? Parallelism.

Author: Fixed.

https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-b2b-edi-inbound-x12-map/[Map inbound EDI X12 transactions to application message format]

Use this for setting up your Inbound transactions.

https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/partner-manager-content-storage-service-s3/[Partner Manager Content Storage API - S3 Template]

Use this for setting up your Partner Manager content storage.

=== X12 EDI Connector Examples in Exchange

> https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/b2b-demo-x12-transform/[Transform XML to EDI X12 850 purchase orders and X12 850 to JSON]

Reviewer: Ditto comments made to the templates subtopic above.

Do you intend these to be Reference topics comprising no narrative but only a list of templates or examples?
If so, use proper bullet list format, per the Style Reference:

===Subtitle for Ref.
Provide intro to list blah blah:
* List item 
+
Description
* List item
+
Description....

Author: Fixed as shown.

> 

Reviewer: Lines 143 to 151 are hidden and therefore unedited.

Author: Okay
